---
title: Building
nav_order: 2
---


Advanced Build Configuration
============================

## Table of Contents
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Building With CMake](#building-with-cmake)
- [Advanced Building With CMake](#advanced-building-with-cmake)
- [Custom FindUSD.cmake](#The-FindUSD.cmake-helper-script)
- [Setting Up Katana](#setting-up-katana)

## Dependencies
The USD plug-in for Katana has the following dependencies:
- Katana's Plug-ins API
- USD
- TBB
- Python
- Boost
- GLEW`**`
- OpenEXR`**`
- OpenImageIO`**`
- JPEG`**`
- PNG`**`
- TIFF`**`
- Zlib`**`
- OpenSubdiv`**`
- PTex`**`

The dependencies need to match the versions that were used to build USD.
The versions we use for these libraries are mentioned in the
[Katana Dev Guide](https://learn.foundry.com/katana/dev-guide/ExternalSoftware.html)

Many of the dependencies are found via CMake's config mechanism.

`**`Note: These dependencies are only needed if using a default `pxrConfig.cmake`
from an external USD Build. If you are using the
[USE_KATANA_THIRDPARTY_LIBS](#USE_KATANA_THIRDPARTY_LIBS) or the
[FindUSD.cmake](#The-FindUSD.cmake-helper-script) on Linux then you will not
need these.

The additional information around these dependencies can be found in the
[Advanced Building With CMake](#advanced-building-with-cmake) under
[Advanced Dependencies](#advanced-dependencies).

#### Katana's Plug-ins API
Katana is shipped with a API (header and source files), used to build Katana
plug-ins.
`KATANA_API_LOCATION` must be provided, to the Katana installation prefix.


## Building With CMake

In order to make building the KatanaUsdPlugins as simple as possible we have
included some extra features which can be used for building the plugins if you
have not made any changes to the required libraries. This has been tested
to work with the KatanaUsdPlugins as we ship them. We have provided an example
build script Linux using the `USE_KATANA_THIRDPARTY_LIBS`.

Unfortunately the use of `dllimports` in the headers of the USD libraries means
that adding the same improvements on Windows is not as simple, and therefore
we need to add the whole dependencies chain which is best described by the
`pxrConfig.cmake` file generated by your USD build. For **Windows** see
[Advanced Dependencies](#advanced-dependencies).

### Linux Example
```
cmake .. \
    -DKATANA_API_LOCATION=<KATANA_ROOT> \
    -DUSE_KATANA_THIRDPARTY_LIBS=ON \
    -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX="/path/to/usd_for_katana/install"
```

### USE_KATANA_THIRDPARTY_LIBS (Linux Only)

For Linux builds only We have introduced a variable which if defined at build
time takes away a lot of the requirements in setting up the thirdparty package
searches within CMake.
This option will define and set the `USE_KATANA_PYTHON`, `USE_KATANA_TBB`,
`USE_KATANA_USD`, and `USE_KATANA_BOOST` variables to `ON`. By default this
is set to `OFF`.

You must specify the `KATANA_API_LOCATION` for this to work, as this is the
root of the Katana install and is used to find the libs and headers we ship
with Katana.

The following options can also be used independently of each other, and you
can default back to using more advanced CMake features for finding these
libraries or using your own by simply not defining any of these.

#### USE_KATANA_PYTHON (Linux Only)
When defined we do not use the default CMake [`find_package`][findpackage] for
finding the Python libraries. Instead we define the `Python::Python` interface
manually from the installed locations in the Katana build.

#### USE_KATANA_BOOST (Linux Only)
When defined we setup the [findBoost CMake `find_package`][findboost] function
to correctly find the Boost which we ship with. As a reminder, our Boost
libraries ship as namespaced, shared and prefixed.

#### USE_KATANA_TBB (Linux Only)
This option manually builds the `TBB::tbb` CMake interface from the libraries
and headers we ship with Katana. As a reminder, our TBB libraries are
namespaced, shared and prefixed.

#### USE_KATANA_USD (Linux Only)
This option uses our provided [FindUSD.cmake], which is a much smaller subset
of the main USD config file, which reduces the third-party dependency
requirements substantially. This will then use the namespaced shared and
prefixed libraries which we ship with Katana. More info about the
[FindUSD.cmake] can be found below in the
[The FindUSD.cmake helper script](#The-FindUSD.cmake-helper-script) section.

## Advanced Building With CMake

Below we provide some examples of cmake build scripts that can be used to
build the plug-ins. There are options there which you may want to remove,
such as `USE_BOOST_NAMESPACE_ENABLED` and `Boost_NAMESPACE` depending
on your build requirements, and whether you're using a namespaced boost,
or want to use our Boost libraries supplied with Katana.

We have introduced a new option, `PXR_PY_PACKAGE_NAME`, to set when building
the Katana USD Plug-ins. For the Foundry USD build, we have namespaced
the Python libraries using this cmake variable, and continued the use of this
cmake variable into our Katana USD Plug-ins. If building against the USD
libraries shipped with Katana, please make sure to set this to `fnpxr`.
If this is not set, you may experience issues using the Python libraries,
most notably for the `usdKatana` module. This value defaults to `pxr`, so if
you are using a default USD build, it will work without setting this value.

### Advanced Dependencies

The following dependencies are required if you are not using the simple build
setup. The majority of dependencies mentioned here will have options depending
heavily on how you have built USD and whether the build used CMake interfaces,
full paths or variables in the `pxrConfig.cmake`. Below we provide the options
we use.

Note: You may also need more dependencies than those we have mentioned
depending on how you have built USD and whether you have made changes to how
it builds. Below are those required when using our `FnUSD` builds, but other
libraries such as `JPEG`, `PNG`, `TIFF`, `PTex`, may also be needed.

#### USD
`USD_ROOT` must be provided, to the USD installation prefix. USD must be built
with `PXR_ENABLE_PYTHON_SUPPORT` and `PXR_BUILD_IMAGING`.

#### TBB
`TBB_DIR` must be provided, to the cmake folder of the TBB installation.

You may also specify `TBB_tbb_LIBRARY` and `TBB_INCLUDE_HEADERS`, or
`TBB_ROOT_DIR` to specify use of the included `findTBB.cmake`.

#### Python
`Python_DIR` must be provided, to the folder containing a cmake config file for
the Python installation. In addition, specify:
- `Python_EXECUTABLE` which is used to compile Python files on build

You may also specify the `Python_ROOT_DIR` to use the default CMake
[`FindPython.cmake` method](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/module/FindPython.html).

#### Boost
`BOOST_ROOT` must be provided, to the Boost installation prefix.
Dynamic Boost is used, so specifying
- `Boost_USE_STATIC_LIBS=OFF`
is also useful.

#### GLEW
`GLEW_DIR` must be provided, to the cmake folder of the GLEW installation.

#### OpenEXR
`OpenEXR_DIR` must be provided, to the cmake folder of the OpenEXR installation.

#### OpenImageIO
`OpenImageIO_DIR` must be provided, to the cmake folder of the OpenImageIO
installation.

#### OpenSubdiv
`OpenSubdiv_DIR` must be provided, to the cmake folder of the OpenSubdiv
installation.


#### Advanced Build Linux Example:
```bash
cd /path/to/usd_for_katana
mkdir build
cd build
cmake .. \
    -DKATANA_API_LOCATION=/opt/Foundry/Katana3.2v1/ \
    -DUSD_ROOT=/path/to/USD/ \
    -DPXR_PY_PACKAGE_NAME=fnpxr \
    -DTBB_DIR=/path/to/TBB/cmake \
    -DPython_DIR=/path/to/Python/cmake \
    -DPython_EXECUTABLE=/path/to/Python/bin/python \
    -DBOOST_ROOT=/path/to/Boost \
    -DBoost_NAMESPACE=Fnboost \
    -DUSE_BOOST_NAMESPACE_ENABLED=1 \
    -DBoost_USE_STATIC_LIBS=OFF \
    -DGLEW_DIR=/path/to/GLEW/lib/cmake/glew \
    -DOpenEXR_DIR=/path/to/OpenEXR/cmake \
    -DOpenImageIO_DIR=/path/to/OpenImageIO/cmake \
    -DZLIB_ROOT=/path/to/Zlib \
    -DOpenSubdiv_DIR=/path/to/OpenSubdiv/cmake \
    -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path/to/usd_for_katana/install

cmake --build . --target install -- -j 18
```

#### Advanced Build Windows Example:
```powershell
cd C:/path/to/usd_for_katana
mkdir build\
cd build
cmake .. -G "Visual Studio 14 2015 Win64"^
    -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE="Release"^
    -DKATANA_API_LOCATION="C:/Program Files/Foundry/Katana3.2v1"^
    -DUSD_ROOT="C:/path/to/USD/"^
    -DPXR_PY_PACKAGE_NAME=fnpxr^
    -DTBB_DIR="C:/path/to/TBB/cmake"^
    -DPython_DIR="C:/path/to/Python/cmake"^
    -DPython_EXECUTABLE="C:/path/to/Python/bin/python.exe"^
    -DBOOST_ROOT="C:/path/to/Boost"^
    -DUSE_BOOST_NAMESPACE_ENABLED=1^
    -DBoost_NAMESPACE=Fnboost^
    -DBoost_USE_STATIC_LIBS=OFF^
    -DGLEW_DIR="C:/path/to/GLEW/lib/cmake/glew"^
    -DOpenEXR_DIR="C:/path/to/OpenEXR/cmake"^
    -DOpenImageIO_DIR="C:/path/to/OpenImageIO/cmake"^
    -DZLIB_ROOT="C:/path/to/Zlib"^
    -DOpenSubdiv_DIR="C:/path/to/OpenSubdiv/cmake"^
    -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX="C:/path/to/usd_for_katana/install"

cmake --build . --target install --config Release --parallel 18
```

It is possible to change the installation directory by setting the variable
`CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` before invoking CMake. By default, the plug-in will be
installed in `/usr/local/` on Linux, or in `C:/Program Files/` on Windows,
under the `third_party/katana/` subdirectory. It is encouraged to set the
variable to a more sensible destination other than the default location.

In the provided examples, the plug-in will be effectively installed in
`/path/to/usd_for_katana/third_party/katana/` in Linux, or
`C:/path/to/usd_for_katana/third_party/katana/` in Windows.

### The FindUSD.cmake helper script (Linux Only)

Due to the way the USD `pxrConfig.cmake` file works, it adds all the libraries
which were built in that USD package. This has the adverse affect of requiring
all the dependent libraries to be included in the build time scripts. To help
in this regard, we have created a simplified [FindUSD.cmake] script to reduce 
this to only the libraries required to build the Katana USD Plug-ins.

To enable the use of this [FindUSD.cmake] file, define the CMake variable
`USE_FOUNDRY_FIND_USD`. This means a considerably shorter build script!
You will also need to specify the `PXR_LIB_PREFIX` you used when building the
USD libraries initially, as this is used to find the libraries. On Linux if
defining this value, remember to add `lib` to the start, for example when
using our USD libraries it would be `libFn`, on Windows just `Fn`.

If you have installed USD in a non-standard way (as we have in Katana), you can
also specify the `USD_INCLUDE_DIR` and `USD_LIBRARY_DIR` separately. Otherwise
it is assumed that these paths are `${USD_ROOT}/include` and `${USD_ROOT}/lib`
respectively. If specifying both of these you do not have to specify `USD_ROOT`.

As we do not support Katana on Apple, the [FindUSD.cmake] script
will fail to find libraries on Apple systems.

Below we have included examples of using this for Linux and Windows.


Example Linux CMake:

```bash
cmake .. \
    -DKATANA_API_LOCATION=<KATANA_ROOT> \
    -DUSD_ROOT=/path/to/USD/ \
    -DPXR_PY_PACKAGE_NAME=fnpxr \
    -DUSD_LIBRARY_DIR=<KATANA_ROOT>/bin \
    -DUSD_INCLUDE_DIR=<KATANA_ROOT>/external/FnUSD/include \
    -DUSE_FOUNDRY_FIND_USD=1 \
    -DPXR_LIB_PREFIX=libFn \
    -DTBB_DIR=/path/to/TBB/cmake \
    -DPython_DIR=/path/to/Python/cmake \
    -DPython_EXECUTABLE=/path/to/Python/bin/python \
    -DBOOST_ROOT=/path/to/Boost \
    -DBoost_NAMESPACE=Fnboost \
    -DUSE_BOOST_NAMESPACE_ENABLED=1 \
    -DBoost_USE_STATIC_LIBS=OFF \
    -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX="/path/to/usd_for_katana/install"
```

## Setting Up Katana

To enable the USD plug-in for Katana, append the path to the `plugin/`
directory into the `KATANA_RESOURCES` environment variable. For instance, on

#### Linux:

```bash
export KATANA_RESOURCES=$KATANA_RESOURCES:/path/to/usd_for_katana/third_party/katana/plugin/
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/path/to/usd_for_katana/third_party/katana/lib
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/path/to/usd_for_katana/third_party/katana/plugin/Libs
```

#### Windows:

```bat
set KATANA_RESOURCES=%KATANA_RESOURCES%;C:/path/to/usd_for_katana/third_party/katana/plugin/
set PATH=%PATH%;C:/path/to/usd_for_katana/third_party/katana/lib
set PATH=%PATH%;C:/path/to/usd_for_katana/third_party/katana/plugin/Libs
```

### Dependant Library setup

If USD is not already set up, also adjust the following environment variables:

#### Linux
```bash
export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/usd/bin/
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/path/to/usd/lib/
export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:/path/to/usd/lib/python/
```

#### Windows:
```bat
set "PATH=%PATH%;C:/path/to/usd/bin/"
set "PATH=%PATH%;C:/path/to/usd/lib/"
set "PATH=%PATH%;C:/path/to/usd_for_katana/third_party/katana/lib/"
set "PYTHONPATH=%PYTHONPATH%;C:/path/to/usd/lib/python/"
```
You may also need to setup where to find the other dependant libraries Boost,
TBB and GLEW. These can be done in the same way as above, append the lib
directory paths for each dependant library to the `PATH` or `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`
dependant on your system. This only applies if using shared libraries.


[FindUSD.cmake]: https://github.com/TheFoundryVisionmongers/KatanaUsdPlugins/blob/master/cmake/modules/FindUSD.cmake
[findpackage]: https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/find_package.html
[findboost]: https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/module/FindBoost.html